---
layout:         post
title:          About Me
category:       blog
description:    Everything about me, API V3.2
---

## Short Brief Introduction

I'm a programming guy. I worked for Microsoft as an escalation support engineer. My technical major is web development, include IE web browser, IIS web server & ASP.NET framework. I'm also familiar with cloud computing, Azure & OpenStack. Since OpenStack based on Linux & Python, I also have a deep study on them.

About my hobbies, I like Classical Chinese Poetry, Chinese History, & Basketball.

## Job

### My current job

We check troubleshooting cases from an internal tool everyday. Once a case being accepted, we would call or email with our customers to know the symptom of the issue they met. Then we would do the first sight judge, gave a conclusion or a trace collection action plan for further analysis. Basically, we have to analyze system & application traces, memory dumps & review codes to find the root cause & solutions to help our customers fix their issues.

We also deliver some POC(Proof of concept) projects or deliver training to our customers, online or onsite.

### Why do choose IT?

My uncle gave me an old 386 computer as a gift when I was in middle school, then I fell in love at first sight. It was the most interesting & exciting toy that I never met before. I installed WPS, a text editor software, then wrote diaries. Nobody could see them except me because I add a password to encrypt the files.

In high middle school, I began to study programming. After knowing how to control the for-loop & if-else syntaxs, I even feel I could control the whole world. The first language I learned was Pascal, a perfect teaching language at that time. 

In university **[ˌju:nɪˈvɜ:səti]**, I spent too much time on computer games, like Starcraft, Diablo & online go chess **[tʃes]**. I remember one day, I started to play online go chess in the morning, about 8 o'clock, then I never left until 4 o'clock on the next morning. I still did not feel any tired, my wife (at that time, she was my girl friend), she pull off the cable, then shout at me: go to sleep!

So, those are why I choose IT. I like computer as a toy when I was young, I like programming because I'm good at it, I could communicate with all of the computer genius **[ˈdʒi:niəs]** over the world. Linus have a famous sentences: talk is cheap, show me the code. I would like to explain my opinions with the code. I also had liked the computer games nearly crazy. However, now, I gave up computer games, only do programming, it's my job, also one of my hobbies, what a lucky thing! :)

## Hobby

### Classical Chinese Poetry

I like Tang poetry best. They wrote a lot of brief but graceful poems to explain the world at their period. Then, one thousand years passed, we still could use the same language to read, feel, & accept their explanation & feeling. What an amazing **[əˈmeɪzɪŋ]** thing!  

### Chinese History

My understanding about Chinese history is Kong-Meng-Zhu-Wang. In my opinion, culture **[ˈkʌltʃə(r)]**, nationality & history are the same things, they impact & decide each others. My Favorite writers are Li Zongwu & Yangxianyi. My favorite book is HouHeXue. In this books, the author **[ˈɔ:θə]** suppose all the heroes in the human history have 2 features: resolute **[ˈrezəlu:t]** & never give up.

### Basketball

I like basketball just because I'm a tall guy, I could play center on a basketball team. I'm good at rebound, re-shoot & attack under the basket. I'm shortsighted, so I don't like to shoot 3-point ball. However I like Stephen Curry in Golden State, he maybe another guy who would change the rules. In NBA, if you're too easy to score & win in current rules, other teams will push the designers to change rules to make a new balance.

## Education

## Family

My grandfather was a Chinese pastry (cookie) maker & an accountant. He was educated from a traditional old-style private school, which teaches reading, writing & mathematics. He liked fishing, handwriting & Chinese classics. He could recite the whole Taohuayuanji even 90 years old. He told a lot of stories about history & heroes to me when I was very young. I could remember most of them even now (Romance of the Three Kingdoms, The Canonization **[ˌkænənaɪ'zeɪʃn]** of the Gods, The Water Margin **[ˈmɑ:dʒɪn]**, The Biography  **[baɪˈɒgrəfi]** of Diqing, Yuefei & XueRengui). He don't like The Dream of Red Mansion **[ˈmænʃn]** because he believe boys should hard work for families rather than play with his servant **[ˈsɜ:vənt]** girls all days.

My grandmother was a very kind-heart woman. She would like to help everyone who ask help, so all people in our village like her. She passed away when I was 11, I missed her very much for a long time.

My father is a cook, he is good at Huai-Yang cuisine **[kwɪˈzi:n]** style. He is a very smart guy, he could build houses, make furniture & repair almost every things in our life except the computer things. He suffered from bronchial **[ˈbrɒŋkiəl]** inflammation **[ˌɪnfləˈmeɪʃn]** from very young (heavy cough in Winter & Spring), which limited his further achievements. He would be very unhappy when encounter any bad news, & also very happy when receive any good news, temper like a young boy.

My mother is a strong woman. She has 2 brothers & 2 sisters. Her parents were too pool to provide all their children to study in school, so she only learned 5 years but learns good. She couldn't study more when she was young, so she always ask me to study hard. She worked very hard these years. Her hobby are playing poker & watching TV, however if any farm thing have to do, she would go to the farm first.

My wife is a children teacher. She is a kind-heart woman too, sometimes over kind-heart. She like eating delicious foods, traveling, watching TV & shopping. I love her, even I think she is a little lazy.

My daughter is a clever baby. She want to play with us or other children every minutes. I love her.
